Okay, yeah, so I already shared with you this evaluation form and I anticipated that the
first part, the group discussion part will be about this evaluation you have received.
I think it's probably the very last moment as a team to get some learning and we would
like also to get your opinion on whether these evaluations are useful for you from your
perspective. So there's no structure, so it's an open discussion and I presume that you had
time to read again these evaluations, right? So what would your opinion on these evaluations?
Are they reasonable? Are they relevant? Are they useful? Are they constructive? So yeah,
you can both unmute and we can discuss again as a group here rather than individually.
Can I ask who Judge Chu is? Was he the one in presence or the one online?
So the first two are the two judges that were invited and the third and fourth are the audience
judges. Okay, maybe I cannot know it's anonymous, so you won't tell me, but can I know if Judge
Chu was the one online? If you cannot tell me, it's fine. It's such a different feedback compared
to just one that maybe if he was online, he didn't catch what we said or I don't know.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So let me think if this will bias you or not.
No, I mean, it's fine either way. I can tell you at the end after we finish.
No, it's just that there is such different feedback from Judge Chu compared to also the
other audience members, Judge 3 and 4, that I don't know, it felt a bit strange reading it.
I mean, if everybody had that idea, then okay, I would take the feedback and consider it.
It doesn't seem too much of a constructive criticism. It seems more critics without any
actual, at least in the first two points, like the last one, they, I use Dave, he gave some
constructive criticism, I guess, with some stuff that he could have done better. But in the first
two points, like in the sound set of the projects, internal product solution and the quality of
presentation, it seems very critical and just critical.
Okay, so probably Gianluca is still reading. Recall, recall.
Yeah, so I'm actually doing some document management because I wanted to compare the two
because first, before you had just one section for Judge 3 and 4, I think, right?
Right. No, no, what do you mean, just one section?
So the file that I originally had in my document manager was merging, I guess, Judge 3 and 4,
because it was called the audience evaluation. So this is the new file that you sent today, right?
Yeah, yeah. No, these are two separate. So it's the audience evaluation was only from one member.
So after I got another set, so there are four separate evaluations. So I thought it would be
nice to share with you. Yeah. Judge 4 would be multiple people.
No, Judge 4 is one person from audience, so the people online. And then we got after the event,
I asked another set of evaluation, separate evaluation. So watch the video of the event.
Yeah. Watch the video of the event. You're right. Yeah, yeah.
Okay, okay, okay. I actually agree with Fabio. So there's, I mean, the first thing that I noticed
is that, and this is something that I noticed right away from the presentation, is that a lot
of the questions that we were asked, I was not expecting. So I would say the first piece of
feedback from my end would be maybe next year for the next students, please just watch the events
again. And maybe you should make a list of typical questions that are being asked. And maybe you just
simply leave this sheet, this document to the students so that they can prepare themselves
for these kinds of questions. Because we were being treated as if we were a legal entity
and not as a university group project, which to a certain extent is very nice because it's
very rewarding. But at the same time, we were preparing ourselves to present a university
group project rather than a legal functioning entity. And so it seemed like the people that
were judging us or the audience were aware of the fact that we were a startup instead of
the fact that we were a university group. So that was strange. And just like Fabio,
I also noticed the fact that some things, some reviews are somewhat incoherent with one another.
Like for example, I noticed one thing last time, I think that would be judge four or in general,
the audience evaluation. I think in some point, I don't know now where it is, but it said something
like this idea would be strange, especially considering that in university cities, you
already have the boss or something like that. And the thing is, we were like the whole point
of the presentation was that this is not serving those areas. And so I was wondering whether the
audience was actually listening or not. You catch my graph, right? Yeah. So I mean, with that
specific feedback, I didn't really collect that feedback simply because it seemed like
maybe it was our fault. We weren't specifying clearly enough that we're not trying to serve,
we were not trying to serve developed urban areas, but rather underserved urban areas.
Maybe we should have made it even more clear, but definitely that audience member did not,
seemingly did not catch the intention of the project. And therefore the feedback was on my
side slightly disregarded, so to say. And yeah, other than that, there's a few people that say,
I mean, I guess this is something that is very realistic. The fact that different people have,
of course, different opinions and they listen to different things and therefore make their own idea
on different key points. And now I remember Nick said, when you start a company,
don't start with investors. And now I actually understand what he meant because I wouldn't want
to work with any of these four investors. So yeah, I understand. Yeah. I mean, I don't know
what else to say. I mean, I guess I pretty much agree with what Fabio said. There's just
a lot of things that were probably unclear on the audience side. So audience plus judges side and
just interview and just feedback that was a bit conflicting with other people's feedback.
Thank you. If I can add something about what Joluka said, I also got the feeling that we were
treated like an actual startup. And as Joluka said, that's kind of rewarding because, okay,
you are put in a real context. But also from the question the judges asked, I felt like
we in the lectures and in the labs focused a lot on the process of how to do research, how to
do the iterative process, so go back, understand and pivot and everything else. While they focused
more on the economical part, that was kind of a thing that we disregarded a bit in the course.
Like, of course, we talked about it, but we didn't go that much into details on how to actually like
we see in the different business models, but then we kind of stopped at that.
Yeah, so I also got the feeling that
we were treated like a real startup, but we weren't still at that point. We were still
at the ideation phase earlier. So maybe that wasn't, we weren't,
we didn't explain it good enough or the judges didn't catch that. I don't know.
So I think that's also one thing to consider.
Yeah, I remember you had a very actually short pitch, right? Unexpectedly short. I remember
when I saw you finish your slides. You didn't use the full five minutes, actually.
I think we went like 15-20 seconds less. We could have used 20 seconds more.
Maybe we could have said something more in those 20 seconds, but when we were rehearsing the day
before, we kind of kept the buffer so that if there were some unexpected thing during the
presentation, we would have enough time to recover. I guess everything went super smoothly,
so we didn't need those buffer type. Yeah, okay. So in this case,
in order to help to give instructions to future evaluators and so on. So among these four
evaluations, which one do you think we should take as a good example and give as an example
to the evaluators? So in terms of the style of providing feedback and so on.
Yeah. I mean, the thing is, to me, the form looks very similar across all four, except,
for example, if you read quality of the presentation section, it's four different people
saying four very, very different things, which makes me believe that we were in the middle of
all these fours and we were right being there. Because for example, if you remember, I don't
know who told us, but the problem part at the beginning, so we had the video pitch and then the
problem part at the beginning, that was too much. And judge four says, the transition from problem
to solution is too fast, making it difficult for the audience to fully grasp the issue at hand.
And of course, at the same time, we had someone saying, guys, you're spending too much time on
the problem. Then judge one says, the slides in the presentation were very well prepared. They
were also very good at answering the question in a proper and confident way. Look to the side,
judge two, so many, I guess, probably cannot predict, no real financial data, no regulations
stated in any forms, nothing about the future composition of the team. Then judge three says,
the presentation was coherent, blah, blah, blah. However, it suffered from redundancy and could
benefit from a more engaging delivery to better capture and hold the audience's attention.
And streamlining the content to avoid repetition, which we removed. So it's kind of...
And also with judge two and the
no regulations stated, I think we had a slice where we talked about regulation and laws,
and I'm pretty sure we spent quite an amount of time talking about the lack of regulation.
It's not our fault if there are no actual regulations talking about it. But we stated
that, so I don't know. That's also why I was asking if he was the guy who lied, because maybe
he didn't hear us correctly because of microphone or whatever.
Yeah. And I would like to add another thing about judge two. So they say,
if they could have calculated money, we need 50K to understand the blah, blah, blah. Okay. So the
thing is, I don't know about other master students, but for example, I know how to make
a Microsoft project. If you remember for the other course, we made a Microsoft project for the whole
thing and a project charter. And frankly, if I had time, I would have, but I had to write a thesis,
unfortunately. So I only have 24 hours minus eight for sleeping a day. So the idea is maybe
for next year, you should suggest your students to make some kind of project charter plus Microsoft
project so that we can address these kinds of complaints. Yep. So many risks and uncertainties
would cost too much to do the practices right. That's basically any company. Any company has
so many risks and uncertainties. I don't know what to say to that. I actually went back and
read all the slides and all the documents about the course. And one thing that hit me was,
if you're not risking enough, it's not worth doing it. So the fact that there's many risks
and uncertainties, it should be so many risks and uncertainties with a smiley face. It shouldn't
be so many risks and uncertainties in a negative way. It's very strange. That's what I'm saying.
Yeah. The point is that not necessarily all the evaluators have the right set of knowledge or
mentality, right? So, yeah. Going back to the point of evaluations, then your conclusion is that
probably it's not one of them is particularly useful, but do you feel
having different perspectives is a good thing? So in a sense, we don't have to unify.
Yeah. The idea is I'm glad that we have different opinions. And it so happens that these opinions
are highly far, to a certain extent, they are highly far away from each other. And we are
basically in the middle of these. And so I think at the end of the day, our presentation was a
very good compromise between people asking us to talk less and people asking us to talk more,
and people asking us to give more details and people asking us to provide less detail.
And people telling us that the slides were very, very good and people saying they were very, very
bad. So, yeah. I mean, it's a good thing. Also for next year, I would keep the,
I mean, if you can have the same judges or even more judges, I mean, it's a good idea. However,
if I were you, I would probably base, I mean, I don't know if the mark was based on the judges'
opinions as well, if the mark also included them. But if I were you, given the
variation in the opinions of the judges, I would probably mark
students not based on the judges' opinions, because these judges, I mean, they have all
different opinions. And therefore, how can you base a mark based on people saying A, B, C, and D?
I also think that having different opinions is always good, like
as many opinions as possible. Of course, like you have a limit because it's a university exam,
of course. But I think it's good to have as many opinions as possible. Of course, then when it
happens, like in this case, that you have contrast opinions, then I guess it would be good
to have a talk with each judge afterwards to understand where their point of view came from,
if they got something wrong, if we didn't explain something good enough, or for any other reasons.
But also, again, given our context, I guess it's difficult to have this kind of confrontation
afterwards because people are busy, and also this is a university exam, and after we're done,
we're expected to move on and do other stuff. But I think there is no one judge that made
better evaluation compared to the others. It's good to have different opinions. It's just like,
as also Gianluca was saying, some feedback seemed a bit strange because from our point of view,
we've talked about regulation. We said that our focus was on underdeveloped urban areas. So it
would be good, again, to understand if that was ourselves not explaining it good enough or them
not missing that part because it's fine. Also, if you look back at the presentation,
like at the video, or even if you are there in presence, it's fine to miss something. It
can happen. It's human. But it would be good to understand which case this was.
And if I may add something more, maybe for next time. I mean, it's something that we could do
orally this time, but maybe next time, I would also add Professor Vang among the opinions,
and I would also ask you to provide us with feedback regarding the soundness of the project,
the quality of the presentation, and the potential. So I mean, maybe you can do it orally with us now,
but maybe next time, just add a column for yourself too.
I agree. I mean, we kind of got your opinion throughout the entire span of the course, but
I guess your grade is somehow your opinion on our work, on what we've done,
but it would also be good to have more in-depth.
Okay, good. Yeah. So actually, the session did happen after, so we actually got together because,
as you said, I cannot base on the final grade on one judge's opinion, and I do want to understand
the contrasting opinions. Where do they come from? So basically, the final mark is the
reconciliation of this discussion. Yeah. So- Is the feedback in the document that you provided
written before or after the discussion, just to understand?
This one, this is all written before. Okay.
Before. So these are the individual raw evaluations after they saw your presentation.
Yeah. So actually, about the confusion of your idea, I think this, I don't know if you paid
attention when you give example about the highway toll. I don't remember when you
talk about the cost of, to reduce the cost of travel, and you said in this case, the highway
toll will be shared and so on. But that highway toll confused judges because if you are focusing on
basically urban travel, highway is not involved, right? So highway, when you talk about that,
highway is actually blah, blah cars. That's a good point. But for example, if, I mean,
we may launch a platform and we may, for example, create a restaurant that is specialized in selling
pizza, and then we have one item on the menu that is meat potato, okay? We can't predict whether
user, whether customers will start ordering mostly meat potato because at that point,
we might say, oh, look, meat potato is selling more. And so we're going to also offer meat potato
more in the future. So the idea is we launch your platform and we focus mainly on underserved urban
areas, but nothing is potentially stopping users from using the app and do both urban
and extra urban stuff. I mean, for example, in the city of Bolzano, you can, a lot of people
use the highway to go from Bolzano North to Bolzano South or to go from Lives to Bolzano North,
for example. And so the idea is that this is something that happens also in Milan, for example,
in bigger cities, a lot of people use the highway and pay the toll to go from one part of the city
to the other. And so the idea is what happens if you do have a highway toll? You have to model
yourself for that. You have to consider that. You have to account for that. And I am sorry that the
judges got confused by highways, but typically it may happen that you may need to use the highway
to move in the city itself or even to the suburbs of the urban area itself.
Yeah, you have a point. But if you want to get the message clear, you do want to confuse them
with contradictory arguments, right? Or the arguments that cause them confusion.
I wouldn't say it's contradicting. I would say it's complementary and additional. And I mean,
again, the thing is, it's very hard to convince and work with investors that you don't believe
would be among your early adopters, so to say. Because if you have an early adopter,
they know. So you don't need to tell them and they would invest. You don't even have to say
ride share. Just simply say are and they just invest. That's kind of the thing. And of course,
this is not something that always happens. And I think one of the key learning points that I've
had from this course and our pitch is that you may need to meet a lot of people before you
find the right person that has the money, but that most importantly understands what you're
trying to do. Because ultimately, you may have the best carrots, but the other person may not
like carrots. So they just simply want potatoes and not carrots. So trying to sell carrots to
someone who wants potatoes is never going to work. Yeah. Yeah. Also this thing about the highway,
it was clear in our idea, then I guess we didn't explain it good enough for the judges to understand.
And there is this talk that we had at some point during the election of knowing who your audience
is so that you can take a different angle at what you're doing to please them more or to make them
understand better. Maybe we also didn't get that correctly because also they were very focused on
the financial part and we talked little to none of it. So yeah, I don't know if a solution could be
knowing earlier what the background of the judges is. I don't know if that's feasible, if
it makes sense. I don't know. But knowing earlier that they, I mean, I'm going back to the, again,
they asked a lot about financial and how the company would make money.
Uh, probably knowing that would have made it, would have made us reconsider
the whole presentation structure and maybe take a different approach.
Yeah. I did mention that these two mentors are going to be the final evaluators and
right. And they also presented during the course about themselves. Of course, the last moment,
there was a change because the other mentor couldn't come. So that's why, yeah, a new
evaluator came too. So this is the point that, yeah, definitely practice, be prepared. It's good.
But at the same time, you never know who's going to be your audience, right? And they say that you
always have to have different pitches, right? You bump into one elevator, you pitch that.
Elevator pitch to that investor. You have another one hour with an investor and you
pitch for one hour. So yeah, but you're right because there's both of you mentioned this.
It's a mismatch between what you have done and presented and what the evaluators expecting. And
this is my part. I should have done better to clarify with them what they should expect.
I did explain, but you know, the communication has to be several times. It can come across.
Yeah, it's fine. I mean, at the end of the day, it's fine.
And yeah, yeah. So there's always room to improve, as we said, right? So
okay, regarding this evaluation part, do you have any additional comments?
No, for me, I think I've said everything I wanted to say.
Yeah, for me, I guess this is something that will occur in the next hour. If you can tell us
how to improve potentially. So what we did wrong, what to improve specifically,
more in detail, maybe something like that. I mean, this is something that is individual,
but I know this part actually is we can do as a group. It's not individual. Yeah. And I can tell
you also, even though it's recording, but I don't think this will go back to the judges. Actually,
the second column judge two is the one that's in class. So actually it's not what you presume
the one online. Yeah. And, but you got the feeling that he didn't.
I can think who it is because I can imagine the type of writing would come from a specific person.
I mean, you got the feeling that he didn't really believe the idea also in the beginning, right? He
had, yeah, also during the course. Yeah. So you had this judge that
had a little bit more view of where you came from. So yeah, also about that,
one thing that I just remembered. So the judges, not the mentors during the entire course of the
class. Of course, the meeting that we had with Nick wasn't productive at all. It was kind of a
mess. Maybe it's our fault. I don't know whose fault it is, but it wasn't very productive.
So that meeting didn't go too well. The meeting that we had with the other mentor, I don't remember
the name. I think it was a bit more productive. We got a bit of insights and of knowledge.
But in general, I got the feeling that generally they weren't that useful. I mean, maybe it was
also our fault because we got their phone numbers or the emails, their emails. So we could have
written to them. But from my point of view, they kind of seemed like a distant entity that
was very busy, had a lot of stuff to do. And I kind of didn't feel right asking them and disturbing
them. So I don't know, again, how you can improve that part. I'm just giving feedback on how I felt
about the mentors. Because we had a meeting once for each mentor and then that was it.
So yeah, I just wanted also to say this. I just remember it now.
Point taken, yeah. So in the past, we did assign a mentor to a team. So actually there is a mentor
team match that probably should have been done also this year. But I was thinking we only have
two teams, maybe. Yeah, so I wouldn't do it if it's very few people. It's best to have multiple
mentors for each team. I mean, I wouldn't bother matching and assigning. I mean, unless it's 50
teams, then sure. Yeah, but then the point is that if you don't have ownership of a team,
you don't take responsibility, right? So yeah, this is something we still, again, have to revisit.
Regarding how to improve, I think actually from video, from Peach's perspective, I think you
really did a good job. And as you can see, apart from Judge 2, so the other judges actually
really appreciate. I think the video is real. And this is a mutual agreement also at the
mutual agreement also at the discussion after the after the pitch. Both agree that the video,
the first part video is at the professional level. Yeah. And the way of presenting,
I think this is probably more toward, I think Fabio is fine. And both of you are fine,
very clear. I think the way Gianluca, you answered the questions probably got
the nerve of the judges somehow, especially when they ask a question, they expect you
answer rather than asking back. Yeah, so ask them because that's the best answer.
It's not.
If I were to go back, I would ask him, like he made some company that makes
payment within restaurants, something like that. I mean, if I wanted to, I could have said,
why didn't PayPal do that? And then I don't know what he would have answered, but chances are I
would have written a mail to PayPal sending him his product and saying, sorry, why didn't you do
this? The same thing would be why didn't LG make AirPods? I don't know. Maybe they don't want $12
billion of revenue every year. Why didn't they make the iPhone? Why didn't they make, why didn't
Volkswagen make the Tesla? I don't know. Maybe they didn't want to want $200 billion of evaluation
in the first years. It's such, I mean, I was very upset by that question because,
I mean, to me, that sounds like a very insane question to ask at this point. It's a good
question because I can't answer that. And I shouldn't be answering that because I can't
discuss what other companies do because I'm not part of the board. I mean, neither of us is part
of the board of BlaBlaCar. So we weren't in a meeting. We're not part of the board of directors.
And so we can't tell them why we don't want to do certain things. Just like Apple is not part of the
LG board and just like Tesla is not part of the Volkswagen board. People just simply do things
differently because they have different brains and have different experiences and have different
opinions. And so they do different things. The idea of asking someone, why didn't someone else
do your thing again? Why didn't PayPal make a platform more tailored to restaurants? I don't
know. Ask them. Literally ask them. I mean, I won't retract my answer. I still stand by it. I don't
care. Maybe you could have dressed it a bit more elegantly. Honestly, but I think, I mean, I try to
be as transparent and as blunt and honest as possible and as straightforward as possible
because I don't like the idea of covering things with politically correct and stuff like that. So
when I think something, I try to be very honest and straightforward and direct, hoping that people
that surround me will also be straightforward, honest and direct with me. So that's kind of my
style of speaking. Sure. Yeah. If you're clear with what would be the reaction and you still do that,
that's fine. I'm just giving you feedback in case that you are not aware that this will cause this
kind of reaction. Okay. So yeah. And then of course, different type of people, evaluators
will have different reaction on the way you answer the questions. This is from judge two,
but judge one didn't really comment on this, right? Of course. Yeah. But other than that,
I think you did a really good job and I feel that the whole course experience, especially with your
team, really positive in the sense that I can feel that you are there really for learning,
so not for just doing this project. So that made the teaching experience also positive for me.
Already I have very small class, you know, so yeah, if students are not engaged,
then it's very difficult for me to be motivated to continue as well. Yeah. So for that,
yeah, I don't know what else you expect from me.
About idea itself, the both judges actually said this is going to be a very difficult to
implement and validate it's costly to, this is their opinion. So if you really want to go real
about this, be prepared. Again, this is two judges' opinion and they are not, you know,
top investors or most successful entrepreneurs. This is basically what they have seen
as early stage startups. They have seen money. This you can be assured.
And also, if I can say something else about that, and it goes back again and the difference between
their financial view or real world view and our university settings. Like for coming up with an
idea, we had two weeks maybe. Yeah. Let's say a month if one from the start of the course was
already start thinking about that. And so I think it's very difficult in that amount of time to come
up unless you have something that is already cooked in your brain for a long time coming up
with something that works like you are passionate about, that there is an actual user need. So it's
useful for somebody and that has a business model that is sustainable. So I guess, again,
in our university setting and in the setting of this course, we focus more about our, that is
something that we care about and is something that there is a user need about. And we kind
of disregard a bit the part of how can I actually make money with it. So also that part is...
Yeah, yeah. I understand. But this is, again, it's not a failure. It's actually positive, right?
To know if it's something that it's so difficult to implement. This gives you a kind of
a dose of reality. Probably in a real setting we would have, if what they're saying is true,
we would have made a bit more research about that than actually the cost. Again, if that's true,
getting these results and then move on to something else or pivoting onto a different... Yeah,
I mean, we've talked about that. And also we went over just one iteration of an idea of a startup
as we were saying. In reality, a team, you have the team and then they move onto different stuff
after they see that one of their ideas don't work and a lot of failures and you have to do a lot of
cycles and pivot a lot and also experience to then realize a product that is actually
worth something. There's definitely this level of
in love with your original idea in terms of your team. I guess this is also related to the fact that
probably originally Gianluca was the idea owner, right?
I think we were able to then move on and to take a different point of view at that because
at the beginning Gianluca was very in love with this idea. But I think we made a lot of progress
afterwards because we kept the original focus of wanting to improve urban transportation.
Then I guess here, in the idea that we pitched, we took more the point of view of reducing costs
rather than reducing traffic or other point of views. But I think there is an improvement
from the initial labs where we were kind of stable on that idea and I think we were able to move on.
As I said during the course, in this early phase, really what is valuable is the learning
accumulated, right? Because nobody can tell if you are profitable or you're going to be a failure
startup because it's exactly because of the nature. It's so many factors. Nobody have a full
understanding how they play out and so on. So the more you can learn in this process,
the more valid those learning are, the better you are to progress and to actually achieve
building a successful startup.
Yeah, so I see Gianluca is still thinking. Okay, so I think if you agree,
we move on with the individual part. So this group discussion part already took
longer than I expected. So probably we will take a little bit long the overall meeting. Hope this
still okay for you. I expect after this we'll have an hour individual conversation maximum.
So it's more, you know, on this process and the usage of different generative AI tools to support
this. And I think the reason we separate with the individual is that we would like to have
maximum input from each one of you as much as possible.
I'll exit and as soon as you're done with Fabio, please write me so that I can get back in, okay?
Okay, so you are second. Fabio first.
Okay, it's fine. If you want to go first, Gianluca, I mean, I will skip lunch because I will wait for
my family to arrive. I also have other things to discuss with the professor.
Thanks. Later. Bye, Fabio.
Okay, so I call you. Yeah, thank you.
Okay, good, Fabio. So for this part, I also have another file to share. It's a diagram
to guide our conversation. Okay, so let me share.
