Okay, it's actually a very simple representation of the four phases, if you remember these
are the four phases we have been through in the course and actually this is the typical
steps of early, early stage startups and the main questions we are going to discuss is
during this process what GenAI tools can support this process and if you have used, how you
use them and what's your opinion on that. But before we jump into these questions,
for any opinions it would be good to know where this opinion is coming from in terms of your
background so we can make better sense of that. So for that I have a couple of questions. So
for example, I know, are you still working? You are working still? Yeah. Okay, so what are you
working as a software professional? I'm working as a developer, full stock, so I'm doing both
backend and front-end. On the backend I'm using Scala, I don't know if you know that language
and in the front-end I'm using PureScript, that is probably a language that you don't know about,
exactly. And I don't know, if I'm going too far, stop me if I'm doing too much. But that's related
to your thesis? Yeah, but no, no, no, it's not related to my thesis, no. But about, I don't know
if the next question was if you use generative AI in your work settings and the thing is,
um, no, because it's very, very bad, because PureScript is a language that is not very
common, that has a very little niche of people that are doing it. So the AI model is straight,
very, very badly with it. And yeah, well, I've tried using some, I mean, a few months ago,
now there are new models, so maybe something changed, I don't know. But yeah, I know,
it was the one time I've tried, it was a very horrible experience. Yeah, so talk about this,
then, how's your general knowledge, you evaluate your general knowledge on generative AI?
So, I mean, I know how they work, not in the specific details, but I know generally how they
work. I would say that I try, I mean, I'm not the super passionate person that looks at every news
articles, and I don't know, is subscribed to a newsletter about generative AI, but I look around,
I see what's up. I mean, I've watched, that's strange, but I've watched some YouTube videos
also about how they were using them, also in different fields, so generative AI music or
and not just for coding. But yeah, I'm not the biggest fan that is spot on with every update and
super focused, but I try to keep myself informed of how they're progressing and what's going on.
Also, because I find that they are very relevant for our field.
Yeah, your field as a software developer, or in general in IT or?
I would say in software development especially, because like, we have seen what AI can do in,
like, it can generate code very, very quickly. And also, I'm not using AI for work, but now for my,
I'm using it a bit for my thesis, and I've tried Claude, that is the new,
like, I don't know if, a lot of people are talking-
It's Claude, C-L-A-U-D-E.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know the pronunciation, Claude, Claude, I don't know the pronunciation.
Claude, Claude, okay.
And for example, now I had to convert some code to C, to C sharp, to C plus plus,
and there is no automated tool to do that very well, but I've sent a file to
Claude, and it got it back translated, and mostly was working, and it really helped me,
saved a lot of time, of course, then afterwards I went over everything to make sure that it did.
It also made some very silly mistakes, and that's fine, it happens. I think that's,
yeah, that's the difference between using it badly, and using it correctly, and using it in
the wrong way. If you just take it as a black box magic machine that brings out code, then it's
probably not, and you are not knowledgeable about how that code should work, then it's,
it's fine maybe for a personal project, but if you want to use it in a work environment,
it doesn't work, but what I think really can work, and I've seen also other people online
having this opinion, is using it as a sort of, like doing pair programming with AI, basically.
So having AI as another person, another entity that you can discuss opinions, you can,
and yeah, so basically doing pair programming with AI.
Yeah, but in this case, you have to have anyway a good amount of
knowledge in order to do this pair programming, right?
Yeah, of course, I've seen people comparing AI to like an intern, so it produces intern
quality code, but I also think on the other point, like so, of course, if you're knowledgeable
about it, you can use it this way. On the other part, if you don't know much about,
I don't know about programming in generally, but for example, in my case, I didn't know C++
very well. I've had a university course about C in the first year of the bachelor,
so it was a few years ago, but nothing about C++ specifically, and like asking the AI about
some features of the languages, some specific APIs about the standard libraries, or some specific
mechanism on how the language is working compared to, for example, C. I think that
can be and is becoming more and more an easier way to learn compared going on stock overflow
and searching, because stupid example, I don't know how to concatenate an integer to a string.
It's much, much faster for simple things like that, but still that you need to learn.
It's much, much easier to ask an AI generative model than to go and search on Google,
and for simple stuff like that, they usually get it right.
Yeah, so now connecting to this, how would you say your experience with any startup
entrepreneurial related activities? Do you have any experience before you're taking on this course?
Okay, so this is your first experience. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, in this case, you are like,
in this case, a programmer analogy, no, it's like a programmer with very limited experience.
So in this case, how gen AI could help in this startup process, as you see here,
from ideation to problem identification, validation, so on. So how would you feel?
For ideation, I think it's very good, because it's very good at generating stuff and coming
up with ideas. And so we also use that in the mini-academy we did at the beginning of the course,
to come up with an idea and to refine the idea. We asked Chachi Bitti for some insights and
what could work. And I think for the ideation phase, the very, very, very, very early one
could be very good. And I think it is very good actually right now as it stands.
And you use the Chachi Bitti always? Did you use any other language models?
No, we just use Chachi Bitti at that time. For the problem identification,
I guess, since it's trained on real data of what people actually think,
could maybe work to get an initial glimpse at what could be a problem. But then I don't think
it's enough. You cannot identify a problem in Chachi Bitti. You need, of course, to go out
and ask people and actually experience it for yourself. Especially if you are working in this
entrepreneurship environment where you really need to believe in your idea.
And I think that's kind of the same pattern for the other
points of the steps of the graphs. Also problem validation. We've used it like
in the course with the digital persona. But again we trained it using data of real
interviews we've done talking with real people. And after that maybe it could be a bit useful to
ask those risky questions that you wouldn't want to ask a real user. Like how much are you willing
to pay for it or stuff like that. I also think that AI tends to be very, like they tend to please
you and to always say that you're correct. Like the true plus true equals five. If you say it
enough time, the AI will also believe that true plus true is equal to five. So it could be useful
but I think since you're dealing with that problem that real people have, you have to be very careful
on how you use it. And it has to be a tool, not the actual way you do the entire step.
Right. Now that you mentioned this digital persona,
so how did you actually build this digital persona?
So we put as resources all the transcription of the interviews we did. And then we came up
ourselves with a persona that made sense. So a student that lived in a city where transportation
is not the best. And we described a bit the environment this person was, this persona was
living in, his routine. And then we gave it a try. I think it worked quite well. Probably we didn't
use it as much as we could have. Because again, we did the problem identification and validation
first on real people. And then we moved on to Judge GPT. So at that point,
maybe there is also confirmation bias. Because if you interview people that
agree with you, and then you give it to Judge GPT, then of course it will also agree with you.
So that's why I say that you need to be very careful.
Yeah. And then after we created it, and we asked a few of this tricky question, how much would you
be able to, will you pay for it? And do you have any other thing that you would want? Or do you see
any critical points on this idea? After that, we kind of stopped using it. And also, I think
that we could have done probably, and we didn't do, is going over it again when we pivoted a bit
with the idea going from advertisement on cars to blah blah car in urban environment.
Honestly, I kind of forgot that it was there when we reached that point.
I kind of forgot the existence of this persona that we built.
That probably would have been also a very good place to use it. Yeah.
If you forgot it, it means that it's not that necessary or useful.
Then with regard to the effort you put to build this persona and the benefit you get, do you think
this is worth the effort? Yeah. I mean, the effort was on our side in gathering the data to train,
to give a context to the model. And that's what you need to do anyways if you're
following the steps and trying to validate your ideas. Anyways, you need to talk to people,
do interviews. So just dumping all that information to the model and adding a bit of context
to create a realistic and specific persona wasn't that much of a... It was quite easy.
I think it took maybe an hour at most. Yeah, 45 minutes, an hour. And also because we were
trying different prompts, seeing how it responded. But yeah, I think it's worth trying it. It doesn't
require that much time. Okay. Yeah. So as you said that this persona was not really used in
the later stages, right? Especially. We would have also needed to retrain it a bit because
we pivoted the idea. So even if the main point... And actually, some of the questions that we've
asked were still relevant, but we would have needed to do a bit more research, probably,
to cover the small gap that was in between the two solutions. So the problem was validated that
it's fine. For the solution, probably we could have done a bit more questions. And that is where
I could have came in, because those are the tricky questions that you don't want to ask
real people. So do you think this is a good idea? Because, I mean, probably also JGPT will respond
in a positive way, but maybe that's something that we have not tried to make it as critical
as possible. So probably in the prompt, you can emphasize the need that you have of it being
critical and coming up with problems. Probably if you train it more in that direction, then it's
also good to ask, like, how much are you willing to pay? Do you see any problems? Do you like the
idea? And then probably it becomes a better tool. Yeah. Okay. So then if we move on in this process
in the later stage, if not this digital persona, what other generative AI tools that came,
that you have used, that actually you found? I think not me personally, but Jaluca used some
AI tools to create the screenshots of the application. I think it was like Figma, but
with a lot more AI. So you could then change all the different components and stuff, but you could
also give it a prompt to start generating a template. But of course, also, as I said,
Jaluca did most of it. So probably you should ask him later about this point. I don't think we've
used any other tool. How about the video? Did you use any tool? I did it all by myself.
I don't know. I felt more confident doing the edits myself than letting an AI do that. Because
I've seen some tools that let you edit a video, like you give it the individual pieces and then
it edits doing zoom ins. But that seemed something that was trained like on TikToks
and Instagram Reels and was more aimed on that general direction. Also, usually,
if you want tools that do a good job on that part, on the creativity part, you need to pay.
It's also like when we did the mini-academy at the beginning and we created a video,
I think I had to create four different accounts because we changed ideas. And so
as a student being chief, I'm fortunate enough to have Final Cut Pro because my dad bought it
and we have the family shared account. And so Final Cut Pro is a professional tool.
I had already used it a couple of times to do very easy things, but also our video
it was mostly cuts with the music so that the music, when the music hit the high point,
also there would be the cut. So that was quite easy for me to do and it took, I think,
yeah, I don't know, a day at most. And a lot of the effort also went into recording and that's
not something that we wanted to do with AI, creating images of us doing things.
Actually, I think AI to reach the quality of what you have done
probably still needs some time.
Okay, then other tools you don't recall any?
I don't think we use any other tools because, I mean, for the presentation itself, we used Canva.
I mean, it has some AI tools to write like certain textbox or rearrange the
layout of the slide. But I don't know, I wouldn't call it really an AI tool because also
PowerPoint, I mean, also PowerPoint now has some AI features, but it was also able to do that earlier,
just moving stuff around and see what's there. And also at the end, then we moved stuff manually and
we rewritten the text manually ourselves. So that had some AI components, but we didn't use any of
that. Also, yeah, now this generative AI is a specialized type of AI, right? So it's not
every smart feature is generative AI. Yeah. Do you remember this website that I gave to you
to do the landing page? Would you consider that?
Ah, right. Right. I forgot about that. Yeah, thanks. Yeah, that was, I mean, I forgot about
that also because then we didn't put that much focus on the landing page and it wasn't really
our MVP. So that's why I forgot. But yeah, that used AI to generate the page. It was quite good.
And I think even though the actual hosting capabilities were quite limited, I think also
because we didn't want it to pay. Probably if we had paid, we could have had more stuff to rearrange
and to do. But the code, like the style was good, I think. And then I just took the code,
copy pasted it. So I changed it on another server. Yeah, we've used names.
Now I don't remember. Wait, let me do a quick research because I won't remember.
Because that's a very good service that if you want to, I don't know.
It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, no. Oh, God. Netlify. Okay. It came to me by itself.
So Netlify. Netlify is the service. How do you file it? Yeah, can you write down in the...
Yeah, yeah, I can send you the... Netlify is a website that you can build with a
rebuild template, right? It's a hosting service. I sent you the link. And it has very good free plans
where you can host your service. And if you have, even if you have no experience at all
in actual coding, it has a feature where you just drag and drop the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript
source code. And then it does everything else automatically. So you don't need to know
everything about web hosting or... But of course, then you have the option to go around the settings
and change some things. It has also some capabilities to do like Lambda function, for example,
in AWS. So it's a function that runs and are called and they don't cost you anything. I think
if you are under a thousand calls per month, something like that, don't remember the exact
number. But yeah, what we did was take the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. There was no JavaScript.
HTML and CSS code generated by the tool, put it in a new project, added a few small things,
like the connection to the database. And I removed a few, like some very small stuff,
like I had to adjust the location of the, for example, the CSS, because it was hosting
everything on a different... So I had to change a bit the URLs. And then, yeah. And then that's it.
And you're actually, your landing page now is on this website.
You're actually in the Miro board.
Yeah, yeah. Let me go back to Miro. I mean, if you look at the URL, it should also say
Netlify something, something. Oh, no. Can you send me the link to the Miro?
Oh, yeah. Wait a moment.
Because I think I lost.
Okay. Wait a moment.
But yeah, I'm quite sure that it uses...
The blue code.
It's here.
Thank you.
Welcome.
Yeah, but don't worry. This is not really important.
Yeah, yes.
But yeah, it's good that you have the link, just in case
you want to revisit what you have done in this course.
So yeah, the website is like, if you see in the URL, it's writeshare-blue.netlify.app.
So yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. And then we've used the simple analytics too,
the student that came and did the presentation about analytics.
Yeah. Which one? It's not Applify or Aptude.
So, okay.
No, this was one of the different options that you provided at the end of the slide.
You had all the different services that... And this was the easiest to implement.
It was one line of code to add in the HTML.
Are you monitoring? Are there any...
No, I don't think there's any...
And then you have to do the digital marketing part, right? To get people...
Yeah.
...trapped in traffic and so on. So yeah.
Okay. So do you remember the very first kind of plugin I gave to you?
And there is actually a chat bot there.
So the thing is, at the beginning when you gave us the tool, I was using Safari as my main browser,
and that didn't work with Safari.
Oh, it's not working. Yeah, yeah.
And so I installed it for Chrome, but then when you gave us the option to go and have the
Google form, and then afterwards again, you gave us the option to go and add the
the Google form, and then afterwards again, having the...
Having us able to manually add stuff to the learning
diary, I kind of forgot about the existence of the plugin.
And afterwards, I also switched to a Chromium based browser where the plugin could have
probably worked. But at that point, we are already in the phases where you gave us the
access to the Google form directly, and so I didn't use the plugin at all.
Yeah. Yeah. The original idea, of course, what we wish to see is that you have this
mirror board here, and then you prepare other documents based on this mirror board, right?
So because you have all your idea presented visually as, for example, in Canvas,
empathy map, and so on. So, yeah. But of course...
I just had the true web page on two tops, and then I switched between them.
Yeah. If there's a simpler way of handling that.
Okay. So then let's write up if you couldn't recall any other generative AI tools.
Let me think, but no, I don't think we...
Then the concluding question is, so what's your opinion based on your core experience
with the course, your general experience? How would you see the role that generative AI play
in this early phases of startup process? Do you think it has a future?
For the ideation phase, I think it can have a future for sure.
For the other phases, I think given that you
are in a context where you're talking about real people, and you're not trying to build the software
for the sake of building a software, but you're trying to build a software for specific needs
of users. So the whole part of the problem validation and the problem solution feed,
and also the problem identification, especially the problem identification, you need to go out
and talk to people to understand really and deeply what the problem is and if the solution
that you've thought about is right. Yeah, as I said earlier, I think it can just work as a tool
to enhance and maybe make some step a bit simpler. For example, it could create
an interview structure. Maybe if you give it a bit of context, it could be good to create
an interview structure or a questionnaire. If you're going for the problem identification part,
it can be good, as I've said, with the digital persona to maybe ask a bit of the more tricky
questions. But I don't think it can go further than that.
Here, actually, because both you and Gianluca, you are from computer science
part, background. Do you see any difficulties for entrepreneurs that don't have this background
to somehow? Do you see any obstacles there? I mean, if you are building a software solution,
then it can greatly help you to create a first prototype, for sure. I wasn't
thinking about that. Yeah, giving my background. Yeah, for that specific, like
doing more technical things, also building a landing page. If you have zero knowledge
about how HTML, CSS and JavaScript works, for sure, it's a big help. Yeah, for people without
technical background. Yeah, yeah, for sure. For the strictly technical aspect of building MVPs
and prototypes. Yeah. On the contrary, if there's an AI tool that can help you
do the financial part, because that's the part that's missing, right? How do you see that?
So, I don't know if I would trust an AI like that. Because, like, you're talking,
like, if you're talking about an MVP or a prototype, and the AI lets you build it in
one day instead of a week, you have nothing to lose. If the AI is suggesting you a business model
and you try to implement it and you lose money because of it, then that's a bigger issue. And
you have something to lose there. So, again, in the innovation phase, it could be good to
get some ideas on some business models. But I don't know if I would trust an AI tool to actually do
the entire financial part of my setup. Right. But maybe, I don't know, maybe that's, again,
I would have to try it. But on the same, like, to try it and trust it, I would have to have that
knowledge first, because I tend not to trust things unless I know myself it's good. So,
either I have somebody that I trust a lot, try one of these tools and say it's very good, and then
I could give it a try and trust it. But blindly like this, I wouldn't use it.
Right. Yeah. I did forget to ask a very important question. So, can I ask?
So, this is really my last question. So, in this process, which part of the activity is actually
you perceive most difficult? What we have been through in the course, which part for you
is particularly difficult?
I think the most difficult part was, for me personally,
probably the problem solution fit. Because at the beginning, I wasn't really all in on the whole
putting advertisement on car things. And I was a bit skeptical about that. I was,
and so, in that part, I was a bit more, I wasn't that motivated. And
it was very difficult for me. That's also, because that wasn't my actual idea, right,
it was more the look ideas, and I was joining in. But afterwards, when we pivoted to this new
blablacar business model, then I felt more at ease. And I think
the general process went much better from that point onwards.
Yeah. So, that would, like not a specific step or specific things we did. It's more that in
the beginning, I was feeling a bit lost because I was going in another
personal idea. And so, I felt like we weren't aligned on some, maybe we could have discussed
more, we could have spent more time discussing about ourselves. And I could have spent more time
asking him about specific details. Yeah. So, going in another one ideas, I guess, it's my,
if I have to summarize it in two words. Yeah. So, if you believe in the idea,
if you share the vision, what you want to do, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I guess, for this,
is there any generative AI tool can help? I don't know. Like a chat book that moderates,
I don't know. That's more like, again, we're talking about real people and like feelings. And
so, that's something that, unless there is like a psychologist, AI, I don't know.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Good. And that's all my questions. I don't know,
Trento, we move on? Oh, do you have anything? Yeah, we can. Thank you. Great. And thanks a
lot to Fabio and thanks for the time you give us. Yeah. No worries. Thank also to you
for the feedback you provided us. Yeah. And good luck with your graduation in September,
right? I understand. Yeah. Yeah. Good. So, keep in touch. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Bye.
Okay. We move on to the last. Yeah. Yeah. So, I go on now, ask Gianluca. Okay.
Be prepared. He has a lot of opinions.
Okay. I'm here. Thank you. Thank you. And
can you see the image I uploaded for? Yeah, the one where you have a flow chart with multiple
AI related pictures. So, the generative AI stuff. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. As I said,
probably you have a lot of opinions to share with us. So, we are prepared for that. So,
it's a good idea. Let me start with that. Let me start. Okay. Because in order to put your
opinion into context, I think we need to know more about you. Even though I think I already know
something, but I don't know. Also, for recording purpose, we would like to
get this contextual information. So, for example, your experience with software development,
can you tell us? So, my experience with software development begins with the first year of
university and we learn how to do Java and then HTML, then Python, partly Node.js and jQuery. So,
basically website development. Then for the second year, we learn how to deal with JavaScript and
therefore app development. And as part of my free choice internship, I also learned how to deal with
PHP. And so, then as part of the other courses of the university, we learn how to write smart
contracts. Therefore, we use Solidity, which is based on C++. Therefore, I would say I'm somewhat
experienced with software development. Real world experience, professional experience?
No. No, not in that sense, other than the internship that I had with a company.
Yeah. Okay. So, in this work experience, have you had any contact with any generative AI tools?
Yes. What is that?
So, I used ChatGBT and Gemini to basically have myself. So, the fact that I learned how to code
PHP on the spot because I had to do that. I had to integrate an API and therefore I discovered the
power of generative AI specifically for telling me what to do. And of course, I did my own code then
and did my trial and testing, but definitely generative AI was very helpful. Typically,
I only use generative AI for coding because writing texts and other things I do. I mean,
I tried once like having an email written by, I think it was Copilot, which is the same thing
as ChatGBT. But the thing is these softwares typically don't write the way I would write things
and therefore it's much easier and faster for me to write the email myself and then read it
multiple times and correct the mistakes. So, yeah. And to a certain extent, I only use
these tools for coding related purposes. Okay. Yeah. So, in terms of startup entrepreneurial
activities before taking on the course, have you had any? What are they if you had?
Any what? Experience? Yeah. Experience of, for example, building your own startup or
participating some startup camp and so on. Yes, I tried a couple and I was rejected at both,
I think. Again, there's a thing that we have in my city where it's basically a meeting that occurs
this typically beginning of September where investors from all over Europe and more come to
the place where I live. And there's a startup context. They select 100 very promising startups
and then they compete, they pitch to an audience of investors. And then I think the best three or
something, they receive some kind of financial backing up to, I think, 10 or 50,000 euros,
I don't remember specifically. And yeah, and it's a good, so typically I attend there. I mean,
I tried for the past two years to attend as a startup, but of course I am competing with
people that already have a legal entity or have a team or as, so typically ideas only or things
that are in the ideation stage are typically rejected. And yeah, but I still find it important
to just simply be in this kind of environment so that you're either inspired by other people's
ideas or inspired by how they solve or address certain issues or challenges. So yeah.
Yeah. Okay. So in a sense, you had some knowledge about startups before.
I would say very little knowledge. Sure.
Okay. Then with this background information, now if you look at the picture in the courses,
in this step, early stage step that from ideation to this problem solution feed,
do you recall any AI, generative AI tools that you have used and how you use them?
Yeah, we used ChadGBT to creating personas.
That's the digital persona you refer to. Yeah, we did with ChadGBT. Of course,
that's generative AI. As far as I'm concerned, we didn't really use the persona as much as we
probably should have because we kind of forgot we were too focused on the presentation and
the websites. And so we actually, I mean, I actually to a certain point after a few days,
I just forgot about the fact that we had this tool, unfortunately, because there's just too many
things to remember. When it comes to problem identification and validation and problem
solution fit, as far as I remember, we didn't really use AI because when it comes to problem
identification, I just simply piggybacked off of my own knowledge of the problem and my own knowledge.
I'll
Chando, did you lose the connection?
Let's wait for him coming back.
Yeah, okay. Now you're back. Yes. Oh, you are back also.
Okay. So what I was saying is, for problem identification, validation, and problem solution
fit, those steps, I typically used my own knowledge about the idea, the solution, and what I was trying
to do. And also because as I said before, we kind of forgot the fact that we had a digital persona
to use. So we didn't use AI for that. We did use AI for very briefly to create the mockup
for the app, because the software that we used, it just can accept prompts. For example, build an app
for ride hailing, and it just simply creates some very basic screens. Of course, this is just to have
an idea of what kind of screens we would need in such an app. But of course, all of that is something
that was done manually by me to just simply create the app itself. Is this Figma you are talking
about? It's not Figma, it's Uizer. Uizer? Uizer, written like this, actually. It's the same thing
that we used for the project of the other course, of which I have questions about too, actually. So
maybe later we'll do that too. This is the thing. It's free. Yeah, it's free, but it's limited. But
typically, they give you a lot of pro trials. We basically used it without paying, but it was
the pro version. And it's nice because you can just insert a prompt, generate a website that is
very elegant on the grayscale-ish that does this, this, and that. And of course, it will create some
very wonky, some very weird websites. And of course, you're going to put your hands on it to
make the style a bit better, a bit cleaner, but it just serves as a way to break the ice and just
give you some inspiration at the beginning. So that's kind of what we use it for, both for this
course, for the app, and for the other course, for the project. Okay. No other AI tool was used as
far as I'm concerned. Okay. Yeah. This MAP, the landing page building.
I don't remember if we, so we used, I think at the beginning, Netlify. So we chose some kind of
template, if I don't remember correctly. Maybe we, at the beginning, we might have used, again,
the digital persona to somewhat validate the texts that were being included in the website.
But at the end, we actually decided to go with our own opinion of what the texts should look like.
So, because if you look at the website, I think Fabio sent the website earlier, you have different
sections and that's kind of it. You have sections with different texts and some of those texts,
the initial drafts, they were built using inspiration from, I think,
Chargbt and the digital persona in general. But I think the final texts, we just simply
wrote ourselves and crafted ourselves. Right. Yeah. Going back to this digital persona,
so how did you build this digital persona? So we actually used as data the description of the
person, which we assumed would be some kind of a university student that goes to work.
And then from work, they hang out with friends and they have a problem because in their city,
there's too much traffic and the bus doesn't always work that well. And the bike cannot be
used because it's dangerous in that city. And we used as knowledge the interviews that we collected.
I think we collected nine or 10 interviews with questions and related answers and we just simply
created a file with these and just simply used that as input. And so when we tested the persona,
we would say, for example, what do you think of, so what is, for example,
something that you find very hard when commuting? And of course, they replied, well, there's a lot
of traffic, parking is very hard to find, and so on and so forth, which, of course, perfectly
aligned with the answers that we had from the humans that we interviewed, so to say.
Right. Yeah. Okay. So you said that you should have used it more. And if you could have used
it more, where are you going to use this digital persona? So I would have used the digital persona
to validate the Instagram page MVP. So I would have asked them, is it a good idea to start?
What kind of content would you like to see? How active do you think this platform should be?
Should we be posting, for example, things that are not necessarily urban related, maybe even
extra urban related? Should we focus instead only on urban stuff? So this kind of content related
and activity of the Instagram page, I think I would have asked because, of course, a university
student or in general, a student, a high school student typically uses Instagram. And so that
would have been helpful. But again, we were just simply too focused on doing the things that we
needed to do that we forgot about the existence of our digital persona, actually.
Yeah. Would you trust the answers given by digital persona in this case?
To a certain extent, yes, because the digital persona is building on top of the answers given
by the people that we interviewed. And the idea is we use the digital persona as
an additional point of view to what we already know and what we already think.
And so, yeah, I would say I trust the digital persona. Sure. I mean, of course, I would always
second guess what the digital persona is saying because we shouldn't be running a company or a
project just using AI. We should always use some kind of human intelligence. But yeah, I would
definitely consider the AI's opinion on whatever we decide to embark on.
Yeah. So the process of building this digital persona is not that I for taking all.
Yeah, it's very easy. And it's something that I would definitely do for next year.
Maybe if you can just remind the students that they have it a bit more, because at least for me,
I was just too taken on delivering the MVPs and the mural boards and whatnot. And we just forgot.
Yeah. Okay. So what are the tools, for example, this video you created?
Yeah, we created not using AI. We just simply had a storyline. We discussed our storyline,
me and Fabio, and then we went to the university. There's like a student university thing.
The university is called, actually. So it's named Orm. And we filmed it there. And then we
filmed it there. And we decided we... So you were the cameraman shooting?
I was the cameraman. Yes. And the reason is because he was planning to go down to Ravenna
and he had access to a car, whereas I wasn't going down home. And so he had to be the student
entering the car. And therefore he had to be the student being filmed the whole time.
Right. Yeah. So here, how would you see, because now with the wave of text to video,
AI tools, do you see any place? To a certain extent, it could help just like the
UISR thing helped us create the app. I mean, it could give some inspiration. It could be an
additional tool in the toolbox. But as far as you said, the result looked professional. And
the reason why it's probably because it was taught and filmed and edited and created by human beings.
And that's why I think it felt a bit more professional. I think it connected very deeply
with the audience or anyone who understands the problem would probably understand the video.
That's kind of the assumption. And the reason is because it's not being made by some AI,
but it's because it's made by humans. And of course, the problem currently,
I mean, even Sora and all of those tools, the way they do video is kind of strange because they all
look like, for example, cars look a bit wonky. So the idea of using AI to create a video, I think
for the time being, it serves as an inspiration for sure. We didn't use that because we kind of
had the problem clear to ourselves. And so we already knew the timeline to develop.
But for other people, for other groups, I would definitely suggest them. Maybe if they don't have
creativity, maybe they could just use tools just as an inspiration. Yes.
Okay. Yeah. So more crap you did use, right? And how about law? Did you have law? This I
don't remember actually. Did you have logo and the logo?
The logo wasn't generated. It was taken from the app that I'm developing,
which is taken from a PNG website stuff. So it's not generated by AI.
Okay. So then what else in this process do you recall anything?
AI related, nothing else.
Especially gen-AI related.
Nothing else.
Okay. Then the conversation is shorter than I expected.
Actually, here there's a question.
I think Papi told you the same things, right?
Right. Yeah. Yeah. No, no. Here we are getting the personal opinions. It's not that there's a
right or wrong answer. It's just, you know, we genuinely wanted to get your opinion. So
in this process from ideation to problem solution fit,
which part personally you felt the most challenging, difficult to handle?
So the idea is I was starting from a solution or from a thing that I wanted to see
being built by someone somewhere. And to a certain extent, I am still 110% convinced that someone
will build something like that or like whatever I have in my mind in some place, maybe not Italy,
maybe somewhere else, but sure, someone will do it. Very certain of that. And the idea is
based on the conversation with Nick and, you know, all the, and the other judges and mentors,
the idea for me is that I grew up in a place where the problem is
very known. And so I'm not used to the idea of explaining myself,
which is something that I learned. So it's a very good learning point. And that is that
the investors or in general, the people that you deal with may not,
given that they live in different places, may not have the same problems
or see the problems in the same way that you do. And so the first experimental part with me
for me was actually explaining the problem. And so identifying the problem and framing it in such
a way that, so to say, a five-year-old will understand it. So very simple. And so that was
kind of the hard part. And of course, personally, I am including in the same problem, multiple sub
problems, because the way I see a problem is problems are not separated, or it's very hard
for me to separate the problem from other problems. For me, a problem is just a set of
multiple problems. And thus a solution is a set of sub solutions. And so this focus of having to
frame one problem and one solution in a very, very clear and defined way. I mean,
to me, this sounds, I mean, that's one of the reasons why I'm doing this master course,
just because I want to see what the professors and what the theory about this is. But to me,
this sounds very strange and very fake and very non-realistic, because problems solutions are
never that simple. Just to bring the same examples back, Microsoft is not addressing one problem,
it's addressing multiple problems with multiple solutions. Apple is not addressing one problem,
they're addressing multiple problems with multiple sub solutions.
But when they are Apple and Microsoft, when they were a garage startup...
And they were addressing multiple problems too, because when Apple created the computer,
when Apple created the computer, they weren't trying to say, well, we're going to improve on
the, so to say, on the typewriter, because you can't just simply type documents on a computer,
you can do multiple things with a computer. So the idea is this trend towards making things
simpler. I mean, I am one of those people that likes the idea of making things simple,
I'm very minimalist, less is more for me, I believe that. But sometimes it's not possible to narrow
something down or sub split it even further, because it's true, it's truly, it's indeed true.
And it's not just me saying it, it's multiple researchers saying that traffic is correlated
to congestion, which is correlated to stress, which is correlated to mental health issues.
It's not one problem, it's connected to multiple other problems. And so the idea of someone saying,
well, you have to frame it better. Well, the thing is the same problem is multiple sub problems.
So problem identification and problem definition, I would say is kind of the issue.
Yeah, and it will always be because when whatever I think, if there's a problem,
I can already overthink all the problems and solutions that are linked and tethered
to that other problem. So that's something if I were indeed going to launch a startup,
I think I'm going to have a very serious issues discussing the problems with people,
because to me, the problem is not just one problem, it's a set of problems, some problems.
Yeah. So given this, given this challenge, do you see any general AI tool can help?
Can any generative AI tool understand my brain? I don't know. Maybe. Well, do they know?
Okay. I mean, there's always going to be space for humans. I mean, we can't solve each other's
problems because if AI could solve all of our problems, there's still going to be other problems
that we're going to create. I mean, people always create for themselves needs and problems that have
to be solved. And so by the time AI catches up, there's going to be more problems and more needs
worthy to be addressed. So, and this, this kind of problem
of defining the problem better, it just depends because it's so subjective and it's so dependent
and tethered to one's personal experience and personal knowledge that AI, I don't think,
would help much. Not to, not to tell you which problem to focus on, but to support your thinking
thought process. Do you think that, I mean, as a, again, assistant rather than, you know,
doing things for you, do you see any scope here? Maybe. I don't know. Depends on where I would use
my assistant and for what. Again, as I said before, would I run a company using AI? Maybe I
would ask for help, but at the end of the day, the final call I make depending on my knowledge. And
of course I'm biased because every person is biased. And so I may make mistakes, but when,
when things go wrong, at least I wouldn't be able to say that I was in the driver's seat.
Let's put it this way. Okay. Yeah. This, this saying I think I heard somewhere. It's an Italian
saying. So if there's an accident or car accident, you want to be on the driver's side.
No, it's just the thing that I say because I like being in the driver's side. Yeah, but okay. So the
question is then in general, now not thinking this particular problem, but in general, the whole
process you have been through and thinking about early stage startups, what's your opinion of
the potential of gen AI? So this is a kind of concluding general statement that I think it
can serve as a tool that accelerates development because it can help because you can have AI is
building on the opinion of millions of people. And so depending on how you engineer your prompt,
you're going to get an answer that is slightly biased towards one of the users opinions on the
internet. And so it can ask, it can have some kind of help when it comes to suggesting. So for example,
the idea of a digital persona is very helpful because you have some kind of direct conversation
with a fake customer type person. But the reason, the major impact that I think AI will,
generative AI will make on startups is not only as an assistant, but it's mainly going to be an
accelerator of startups as a whole because the idea of generative AI is I'm going to get rid of
things that are very manual or very boring. And what is going to be left for us to do is to be
creative and push a lot more on the soft skills. And therefore there's going to be a lot more
companies. I think the rate of creation of startups is going to be much faster, which of course means
that the rate of failure is going to be much faster because I think the number of startups is
going to increase over the next years. But that's kind of the major direct effect that I see from
startups, from AI itself. So the idea that maybe 10 years ago, you were fine launching your company
and making it work with a few employees. Now the idea of generative AI is you're on your own,
make your own partita IVA. You have to make your own company and you don't necessarily need a full
stack developer because you may have AI help you with deploying your website because you have the
tools like Wix and you know, these kinds of things. So it's definitely going to replace
and free up money from, and this is something that I actually said also in the other,
in the feedback from the other course. So the fact that AI is going to help us better make
our ideas reality simply because we will need less employees. And of course, humans are the major
cost factor, cost driver. And so yeah, as an assistant and as a replacer for humans,
so that the humans that are not employees anymore can become their own company,
their own entity and start working on whatever they feel like working. That's, that's kind of
where I see AI now. Do you see in the future that it actually can leave up to being the co-founder
of, so as your co-founder?
Well, so the idea is if AI is smart enough to randomly create ideas and patent them,
then okay. But then how would a person less entity create something, market something? I mean,
this is something that can probably be seen much better for software things. But I think this is
something that is maybe 100, 200 years from now, and it still won't be anything similar to what
you're describing now. I think there's still going to be people, because at the end of the day,
people, you're trying to solve people's problems. And so you need to be able to truly connect with
people to understand what their problem is and what kind of problems they have. And so an idea of AI
developing an idea by itself is something that I see very
unlikely, at least in the next 50 to 100 years, maybe.
Maybe shorter. No, I'm not saying AI is a sole founder. I'm saying AI is a co-founder.
So in a sense, still, there's a human agency.
In that case, yes, because I mean, anybody can, I, for example, consider
Chagibiti, Gemini, and Copilot to be my first employees to a certain extent. Because,
I mean, an employee is supposed to be someone that helps you do something. And so, I mean,
imagine if an employee like Chagibiti or Gemini existed. I mean, they would be the employee of
the month for every month in any company. They're very useful. So, yeah, to an extent,
sure. But as a founder themselves, maybe not. Okay. So I think these are all my questions.
I just double checked with Trent, or did I forget to ask anything?
No, I think it's okay. Everything is okay. Okay, good. So I think
now we can at least, let me stop the recording now.
Gianluca, you want to?
